# CS-210Project3CornerGrocerPurchaseCount
Final project in CS-210

The purpose of this program is to help a fictional grocery store display a record of items purchased throughout the day in a human readable format. It scans through a .txt file line by line and either creates a new key-value pair in a map or increments the value associated with the matching key. The user can interact with this by selecting one of four options. The first option takes an item name as an input and then displays the number of times it was purchased. The second option displays every item and its total amount in a list, and the third option displays the same information as a histogram.

One thing that I believe I did well was the organization of the program. I think it would be relatively simple to change some of the code in one class to scale it up or enhance the functionality. I did this by separating the display methods in one class and file input/output and data manipulation methods in another. I could tweak a few lines in the IOFiles class, and use that in another program that reads a .txt file and counts the frequency of items in that file. I also included inline comments that described what each function does.

One improvement I thought of while working on this program was a method to read different files in and update the frequency.dat file accordingly. I would just have to first scan the frequency.dat file into the map, and then scan in the new .txt file with the method that already exists in the code. I could improve the efficiency of the code by referring to the map object member of the IOFiles class by reference rather than by copying it. This would use less memory, and may improve the speed of the program if there are more rows of data added later.

Quite frankly, there wasn't a piece of code that I remeber being distinctly challenging. Honestly the most time consuming part was getting the display functions to be aesthetically pleasing. I didn't realize at first that when looping, the text alignment was getting messed up by other functions in the program, but I fixed this by aligning the text of the menu titles to the right in the PrintMenu function, which fixed the issue. This project gave me more confidence in dealing with file input and output. It also helped me improve my abilities to plan out what I am going to write before even opening my IDE. I didn't really have to deviate to far from my original plan, so this project really helped me feel like I am grasping some of these concepts better than I initially thought I did.
